<includeonly>{{#info:{{{1|}}}|{{{2|info}}}|max-width={{{3|}}}|theme={{{4|}}}}}</includeonly><noinclude>
Tooltips are useful for supplying information to users as a pop-up where it would otherwise be distracting to insert the information in the main text. A primary application of this would be defining variables for mathematical equations. In this case a tooltip can be placed beside the math equation and the variables defined therein.

Tooltips can also be used in other cases and may have different icon styles

{| class="wikitable"
|-
!Tooltip type!!icon
|-
|info||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info}}
|-
|warning||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|warning}}
|-
|note||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|note}}
|-
|error||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|error}}
|}

Tooltips can also have max-width specified

{| class="wikitable"
|-
!max-width!!
|-
|100||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info|100}}
|-
|200||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info|200}}
|-
|300||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info|300}}
|-
|}

Tooltips can be show in different themes

{| class="wikitable"
|-
!theme!!
|-
|default||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info}}
|-
|square-border||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info||square-border}}
|-
|square-border-light||{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|info||square-border-light}}
|-
|}

= Adding a tooltip using the source editor =

To add a tooltip to a page using the source editor, use the "info" template. For example the following markup:

<pre>{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text}}</pre>

will display an information icon with "This is sample tooltip text." as its text:

{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text}}

Full params:

<pre>{{Tooltip|This is sample tooltip text|warning|300|square-border-light}}</pre>

= Adding a tooltip using the visual editor =

To add a tooltip to a page using the visual editor do the following.

== Insert the template ==
# Click the "Insert" menu on the editor toolbar.
# Find the "Template" menu item and click it.

== Bring up the tooltip dialog ==
# Type "Tooltip" in the template input. 
# Wait for the dropdown item to appear and click it. Click "Add template".

== Fill out the Tooltip fields ==
# In the parameter input, type the tooltip text.
# (optional) Add a tooltip type, max width and theme parameters
# Click "Insert".

= Special characters in Tooltips =
Some special characters, notably the equals sign (<nowiki>=</nowiki>) can be incorrectly interpreted as HTML as discussed [[smw:Help:Special_characters_in_tooltips|here]]. To avoid this, use the string of characters <code>&amp;#61;</code> instead of the equals sign.

<templatedata>
{
	"params": {
		"1": {
			"aliases": [
				"text"
			],
			"label": "Tooltip text",
			"description": "The text to display when the tooltip is hovered",
			"example": "Sample text",
			"required": true
		},
		"2": {
			"label": "Tooltip type",
			"description": "Defines the type of the tooltip and the icon to be shown",
			"type": "string",
			"default": "info",
			"aliases": [
				"type"
			],
			"example": "info,warning,note,error",
			"suggested": true
		},
		"3": {
			"label": "Max width",
			"description": "Defines the maximum width of the popup window",
			"type": "string",
			"default": "",
			"aliases": [
				"max-width"
			],
			"example": "300",
			"suggested": true
		},
		"4": {
			"label": "Theme",
			"description": "Defines render theme",
			"type": "string",
			"default": "",
			"aliases": [
				"theme"
			],
			"example": "square-border,square-border-light",
			"suggested": true
		}
	},
	"description": "Adds a tooltip"
}
</templatedata>
[[Category:mediawiki-pages-Tooltip]]
</noinclude>